---
layout: post
title: "Spring Bootcamp"
author: "Leonardo Marques"
categories: java
tags: [java, programming language]
image: spring/springboot.jpg
---

|
[course](https://codingnomads.com/course/advanced-java-spring-boot-framework)
|

# Spring Framework in Java
Spring is a lightweight and modularized framework to build modern, enterprise-grade software applications. The Spring Framework makes enterprise Java development better, easier, and makes you a better Java developer.

``Core Features & Benefits of the Spring Framework``
* Thanks to Spring components such as Spring Security, Spring Data and Spring Web you can save endless hours writing code with a few simple configurations. You can pick and choose which Spring components you'd like to include in your applications.

* Dependency Injection (DI) can help in developing loosely coupled applications, improving flexibility and testability.

* Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP) takes care of separating cross-cutting concerns from our business layer.

* Spring has many mature integrations with 3rd-party libraries and frameworks.

* Spring has a large, active, and engaged community and ecosystem.

### Java Spring Boot
* Spring Boot is an opinionated and convention-over-configuration based framework that makes it easier to get Spring projects up and running faster

* Spring Initializr is a web tool that helps quickly set up Spring Boot projects

* Spring Boot uses **AutoConfiguration** to work its magic

* When in doubt, start with Spring Boot!

# Inversion of Control (IoC)
### Introduction to Dependency Injection
* Dependency injection simply ensures that an object has reliable access to other objects that it depends on, called dependencies.

* Dependency injection is part of a larger design principle called inversion of control (IoC).

* Loose coupling means that many or most of your class-level dependencies, aka Object-type instance variables, are references to interfaces or super-classes rather than specific implementations of any given class.

### Intro to Inversion of Control (IoC)
* IoC is all about "decoupling" classes from their dependencies.

* IoC makes your classes more flexible and gives them the ability to evolve over time.

* When using IoC, you describe "beans" that the container should create and "inject" where needed.

### Dependency Lookup
* Dependency Injection is the preferred implementation in a Spring application.

* Dependency Lookup is when an object searches for required dependencies itself.

* With Dependency Pull, dependencies are pulled from a registry as required.

``Disadvantages of Dependency Lookup:``
* Takes more time to search for beans on the fly.

* Code remains tightly coupled.

* Less convenient compared to Dependency Injection.

### How to Use Dependency Injection
* **Constructor Injection:** inject a Bean into a class using a Java constructor

* **Setter Injection:** inject a Bean into a class using a setter method and an *@Autowired*

* **Field Injection:** inject a Bean into a class by declaring the field needed and annotating it with *@Autowired*

# Spring Core
### Spring ApplicationContext
* Automatic bean instantiation and lifecycle management.

* The ability to load file resources.

* Bean factory methods for accessing application components.

* The ability to publish events to registered listeners.

* The implementation of IoC and DI design patterns.

### Spring ApplicationContext Event Handling
* ApplicationContext provides you the ability to publish events to registered listeners.

* Spring publishes a ton of events out of the box, such as **ContextRefreshedEvent**, **ContextStartedEvent**, and **RequestHandledEvent**.

### Spring Framework Beans
* Spring Framework Beans are objects that are created and managed by the Spring IoC container.

* Spring will inject beans wherever you tell it to do so.

### Spring Framework Bean Scopes
There are six kinds of bean scopes supported in the Spring Framework:

* **Singleton** - one single bean instance per Spring IoC container.

* **Prototype** - A new bean instance each time when requested.

* **Request** - A single bean per HTTP/HTTPS(Web) request.

* **Session** - A single bean instance per HTTP/HTTPS session.

* **Global Session** - A single bean instance per HTTP/HTTPS global session.

* **Application** - A single bean per lifecycle of a ServletContext.

Bean scopes allow you to define beans that match the feature set and functionality of your applications.

### Spring Bean Life Cycle
Spring beans follow a known "life cycle". The stages of the Spring Bean life cycle are:

1. **Bean Definition Acquisition**

2. **Bean Creation and Instantiation**

3. **Populating Bean Properties**

4. **Post-Initialization**

5. **Ready to Serve**

6. **Pre-Destroy**

7. **Bean Destroyed**

By implementing the InitializingBean and DisposableBean interfaces, you can easily hook into any bean's life cycle just after its creation (InitializingBean) and right when it is destroyed (DisposableBean).

### Java Annotations
* Java Annotations are a form of metadata (aka "decorators") that are applied to Java classes, methods, or fields (aka Java "constructs").

* *@Override* is an annotation that comes with the Java libraries. It indicates that this method "overrides" a method in a parent class.

Java annotations consist of two basic pieces of information:

* **Retention** Policy - How long (program life-cycle) the annotation should be retained for.

* **Target** - In which Java Constructs (class/method/field) the annotation has been applied.

### @Configuration
* *@Configuration* indicates that a given class contains bean definitions.

* Spring will automatically load all beans defined in *@Configuration* classes into the ApplicationContext (IoC container).

### @Bean
* The Spring *@Bean* annotation stands out as one of the most extensively used annotations in the Spring Framework.

* *@Bean* is a method-level annotation.

* Life cycle methods can be specified using *@Bean* attributes.

### @ComponentScan
* *@ComponentScan* is used to tell Spring where to search for classes annotated with *@Configuration*, *@Component* or one of its specializations.

* The basePackages attributes of *@ComponentScan* can be used to specify where to search.

### @Autowired
* The *@Autowired* annotation is used to mark a constructor, field, or setter method to be autowired by Spring's dependency injection mechanisms.

* The *@Autowired* annotation can be used directly on properties of a POJO (or any other class).

* *@Autowired* can be used on setter methods.

* Spring resolves *@Autowired* entries by type. So, if more than one bean of the same type is available in the IoC container, Spring will throw a runtime exception.

### @Lazy
* By default, Spring creates all beans "eagerly" when your application starts.

* A good use case for @Lazy is for faster application startup times.

### @Value
* The *@Value* annotation has a wide range of use cases in day-to-day software development. One of the most common uses for the *@Value* annotation is to quickly read a value from a properties file.

* *@Value* can be used at the field level for expression-driven dependency injection.

* *@Value* can be used along with a parameter to a method or constructor, and the default value for that argument will be injected from the properties files.

### @Primary
* Similar to the *@Qualified* annotation, the *@Primary* annotation allows you to assign higher priority to a particular bean when there are multiple beans of the same type present.

### @Scope
* *@Scope* is used to establish a bean's scope.

* The *@Scope* annotation can utilize constants from the ConfigurableBeanFactory interface rather than manual string entries.

### Advanced Annotations
* *@DependsOn* will force Spring to initialize one or more beans before the bean that is annotated.

* *@Profile* allows you to essentially "activate" and "de-activate" specific beans based on the current profile.

* *@Import* is used to load bean definitions from one class to another.

* *@PropertySource* this annotation makes it quick and easy for Spring to find the right file with the right properties.

* If you happen to have a Groovy or XML file that configures Spring Beans, you can import those beans using *@ImportResource*

```Profile-specific Properties```
* In your application.properties file, add the following line: **spring.profiles.active=test**

* When a profile is activated, Spring automatically searches for a profile-specific properties file associated with it.

* To implement this, ensure that you create these files in the same location as your primary application.properties file, adhering to the naming convention: **application-{profile}.properties**.

# Spring Data
Spring Data is useful for many reasons, including:

* Helps reduce boilerplate code associated with database operations.

* Provides abstractions that unlock new ways to interact with existing tools.

* Leverages existing libraries while providing a decoupled approach.

* Abstracts away almost all manual database interaction.

Spring Data includes several handy modules, including the following:

* **Spring Data JDBC** - Provides Spring JDBC support. Making manual querying of the DB more convenient.

* **Spring Data JPA** - Provides convenient configuration of and entry to the DB using models and repositories.

* **Spring Data REST** - Facilitates exporting data/objects as hypermedia-driven RESTful resources.

### Spring JDBC
* Spring Data JDBC is the Spring Data module that helps abstract away all the boilerplate compared to vanilla JDBC.

* The Spring *JdbcTemplate* class is the key to using Spring JDBC. It handles the previously mentioned boilerplate work and provides several methods to interact with the database.

With Spring Data JDBC, you can:

* Remove (what feels like hundreds) of pesky try-catch statements.

* Stop worrying about adding the correct driver to the classpath.

* Separate your business logic from database connection management.

* Execute SQL queries efficiently through Autowired dependencies.

### ORM
* Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) is a technique that facilitates mapping between relational data object-oriented paradigms.

* Object Relational Mappers (ORMs) are libraries that implement ORM techniques.

* There are many upsides to using ORMs. It is recommended you take advantage of what's out there.

* ORMs written in Java should follow JPA specifications. The most common library to do this is Hibernate.

### JPA
* Java Persistence API (JPA) is a specification that describes how to manage relational data in Java applications.

* Spring Data JPA acts as an abstraction layer that simplifies working with Hibernate.

* Think of Spring Data JPA as JdbcTemplate on steroids. As previously mentioned, this goes further than just eliminating the need to write JDBC code; it takes JDBC & SQL off your plate altogether.

* Similarly to ORM, JPA is not a tool or a framework. It is a set of guidelines that can be implemented.

### JPA Annotations
* *@Entity* - marks a class as persistable

* *@Table* - can be used to specify table names and the schema where the table should be located

* *@Id* - indicates the field shall act as the ID/primary key column for the table

* *@GeneratedValue* - used in conjunction with @Id to have Spring generate the primary key for you

* *@Column* - allows control over column settings such as name and length

* *@Transient* - indicates that the field is not to be persisted in the database and should be ignored by JPA

### JPA Entity Relationships
The four annotations used to represent entity relationships in Spring Data JPA are:

* *@OneToOne*

* *@ManyToOne*

* *@OneToMany*

* *@ManyToMany*

Relationships can be unidirectional or bidirectional, where there is always one owning (parent) entity and one owned (child) entity.

Three more important parameters that are also available to customize your entity relationships are:

* **fetch** dictates how items are retrieved from the database: eagerly (pre-emptively) or lazily (when they are needed).

* **optional** allows you to make the relationship optional or required.

* **cascade** dictates which actions also get applied to child entities.

### One-to-One Relationships
* There are two variations of a one-to-one relationship: unidirectional or bidirectional.

* In bidirectional relationships, the **mappedBy** attribute plays a crucial role. It indicates which side of the relationship is the 'child' or 'non-owning' side, thereby guiding JPA on how to manage the relationship and optimize database operations.

```Ambiguity of Bidirectional Relationships```
```java
driver1.setCar(car2);
car2.setDriver(driver3);
```
* In this scenario, if an attempt is made to persist these changes to the database, Spring faces a dilemma: should the relationship be between **driver1** and **car2**, or between **car2** and **driver3**? To address such ambiguities, JPA has a defined fallback behavior.

* This fallback behavior prioritizes the "owning" or "parent" side of the relationship. 

* In this example, since the Driver class is the owning side of the relationship (as it doesn't use **mappedBy**), changes made through **driver1.setCar(car2)** take precedence over **car2.setDriver (driver3)**. This results in **driver1** being linked with **car2** in the database.

### One-to-Many + Many-to-One Relationships
* You can define unidirectional relationships with *@OneToMany* or *@ManyToOne* depending on the scenario.

* Bidirectional relationships use both annotations (one on each side).

* When establishing bidirectional relationships, it is important to utilize the **mappedBy** attribute of *@OneToMany*.

* The *@ManyToOne* side is generally the "owning" or "parent" side of the relationship.

* When persisting changes, it is important to initiate actions from the owning side of the relationship.

### Many-to-Many Relationships
* Many-to-many relationships are created between collections of entities.

* When establishing bidirectional relationships, it is important to utilize the **mappedBy** attribute of *@ManyToMany*.

* To customize your join table, you can use the *@JoinTable* annotation.

### @JoinColumn Annotation
The @JoinColumn annotation serves two purposes. It can:

* Inform Spring that you would like to use a join column instead of a join table.

* Customize the join column.

Use the @JoinColumn annotation to:
* Change the join column name.

* Specify which column (in the related table) the join column references.

* Indicate whether the column should be flagged UNIQUE.

* Specify whether the column can be null.

* Make the join column "final" or non-updatable.

* Get super specific and define the SQL used to generate the column during table creation.

### JPA Repositories
* Repositories act as a middleman between you and the database.

* Repositories are your data access point. All you have to do is invoke a repository method, and Spring takes care of the SQL and mapping for you.

* There are several repository types, each of which stores a set of methods giving you access to different features.

* Sort is used to manage the order in which the entities are returned. Sort allows you to return entities in either ascending (the default) or descending order.

* The JpaRepository extends both the PagingAndSortingRepository and the QueryByExampleExecutor interfaces.

### Derived Query Methods
Format for Spring Data JPA derived query methods. This format is centered around several keywords:

* Equality Keywords

* Similarity Keywords

* Comparison Keywords

* The Distinct Keyword

* Limiting Keywords

* Multiple Condition Keywords

* Nested Property Character

### @Query Annotation
* Spring Data JPA allows you to define custom queries for repository methods using *@Query*.

* The JPA *@Query* method allows you to use either native SQL or JPQL.

* When using *@Query*, Spring no longer uses the method signature to infer the query, so you can name the method whatever you want.

```java
@Repository
public interface TestRepo extends JpaRepository<TestObject, Long> {
    
    @Query(value = "SELECT * FROM test_objects WHERE id = 1", 
            nativeQuery = true)
    TestObject getTestObjectWithId1Native();
    
    @Query("SELECT testObj FROM TestObject testObj WHERE testObj.id = 1")
    TestObject getTestObjectWithId1JPQL();
}
```

### Lifecycle Callbacks
* Lifecycle callback annotations are used to manage logic surrounding entity lifecycle events.

* There are two overarching types of lifecycle annotations:

* **Pre:** annotations are used to execute some logic before an action is taken.

* **Post:** annotations make sure a method runs after an action is completed.

### Hibernate ORM
* A persistence context acts as a de-facto cache and helps mediate between your business logic and the database.

* In Hibernate, Session represents the persistence context. Its many methods allow you to manipulate the entities managed and transition them from state to state.

* Always consider the state of an entity. The three states are transient, persisted, and detached. A detached entity can cause potential problems.

* Transactions are used to handle errors relative to the database. They can either be rolled back (errors got thrown) or committed (no errors occurred). Transactions are made possible by the persistence context, which stores the changes and only updates the database once you commit the transaction.

### Spring Hibernate Integration
* Spring makes your life easier by abstracting most of Hibernate away.

* Transactions are a critical part of database interactions, and Spring Data JPA provides the *@Transactional* to help simplify them.

* Spring abstracts Session with EntityManager, and EntityManager with repository interfaces.

* You can access an EntityManager by using the *@PersistenceContext* or *@Autowired* annotations on an EntityManager field.

### @Transactional - Acid Transactions
* *@Transactional* provides a few ways to change the default behavior:

* Adjust the behavior of intermingling transactions using the propagation parameter of @Transactional.

* **REQUIRED**

* **SUPPORTS**

* **MANDATORY**

* **REQUIRES_REW**

* **NOT_SUPPORTED**

* **NEVER**

* **NESTED**

* Isolate transactions using the isolation parameter of *@Transactional*. The isolation levels are:

* **READ_UNCOMMITTED**

* **READ_COMMITTED**

* **REPEATABLE_READ**

* **SERIALIZABLE**

### @Transactional Options
* **timeout:** Sets a time limit (in seconds) for the transaction from start to commit.

* **readOnly:** Signals the transaction as read-only for efficiency purposes. This does not block you from executing write operations.

* **rollbackFor:** Specifies which exceptions for which the transaction should roll back.

* **noRollbackFor:** Indicate which exceptions for which the transaction should not roll back.

### Common Spring Data JPA Repository Issues
* The first error discussed here is not really an error but more behavior for which to look out. The lesson here was to be careful when manually assigning IDs to objects (or better yet, never do it at all).

* The second problem started when the example attempted to save an existing child by persisting a new parent. This resulted in a detached entity error since the child entity was considered detached from the session trying to persist it. To fix this problem, you had to annotate the class with *@Transactional*.

* The last problem displayed the session problems surrounding the use of lazy loading. The example created a situation in which the session that had been used to fetch the parent from the database was closed before *toString()* was called. Resulting in a lazy-loading exception because when the child was accessed through a *toString()* call, the session tasked with fetching the child entity was no longer active.

# Spring Web

### GET Requests
* Using **getForObject()** to submit a GET request to an external API, and have a POJO populated with data from the response body.

* Using **getForEntity()** to submit a GET request and access additional information about the response and the body.

### POST Requests
1. **postForObject():** maps the response body directly to a POJO.

2. **postForEntity():** returns a ResponseEntity<?>.

3. **postForLocation():** returns a URL indicating the location of the newly created resource.

Each of the three methods listed here accepts:

* A URL to indicate where the request should be sent.

* The object you want to POST to the URL.

* An **optional Map** to pass query parameters.

### Java Servlet
* Java servlets are classes that are used to handle web requests. When a client sends a request to your application, a servlet processes the request and sends back a response.

### Types of Servlet
* GenericServlet is an abstract class that adds more functionality to the Servlet class.

* The HttpServlet is an abstract GenericServlet designed to handling HTTP requests.

### Spring Controllers
When a class is marked with *@Controller* (or *@RestController*), Spring creates a path from the outside world to that class based on the URL you assigned to it. You can almost completely ignore the world of servlets running the show behind this and focus on the important stuff.

* *@Controller* is used for web controllers where the logic involves selecting a "view", like an HTML page.

* *@RestController* ties the method return value to the response's body. This makes it perfect for creating RESTful web services.

### @RestController
* *@RestController* is a combination of *@Controller* and *@ResponseBody*.

* *@Controller* tells Spring that this class will be used to respond to web requests.

* *@ResponseBody* tells Spring to write the data/objects returned from the methods within the class directly to the HTTP response body.

* *@RequestMapping*  is used to define your endpoints. It can be used on the method or class level, and takes the following parameters as a String or an array of Strings:

    * **path**
    * **method**
    * **headers**
    * **consumes**
    * **produces**

### Java Mapping
* GET = *@GetMapping* = *@RequestMapping(method = RequestMethod.GET)*

* POST = *@PostMapping* = *@RequestMapping(method = RequestMethod.POST)*

* PUT = *@PutMapping* = *@RequestMapping(method = RequestMethod.PUT)*

* DELETE = *@DeleteMapping* = *@RequestMapping(method = RequestMethod.DELETE)*

* PATCH = *@PatchMapping* = *@RequestMapping(method = RequestMethod.PATCH)*

Each shortcut acts precisely like its @RequestMapping counterpart, but predefines the HTTP method used. This means that all the parameters for @RequestMapping are also available for the shortcuts.

### Spring ResponseEntity
    * Headers
    * Bodies
    * Status Codes

Spring ResponseEntity is used by utilizing its defined constructors or the available builder pattern.

### @ResponseBody Annotation
* *@Controller* tells Spring that this class contains outward-facing endpoint definitions (which default to traditional MVC endpoints).

* *@ResponseBody* indicates you want the data returned from the method(s) to be written to the HTTP response body.

* If you accidentally forget to use *@Controller* or *@RestController*, you'll get 404s because Spring has not registered the defined endpoints.

* If you want to return an object in the body of your response, and forget *@ResponseBody* in an *@Controller*-annotated class, you get an exception.

### Client Data Annotations
* *@PathVariable* pulls information from the URL path and maps it onto a variable.

* *@RequestParam* is used to retrieve query parameters from the URL by their name.

* *@RequestBody* indicates the variable Spring will map the HTTP body onto.

### @RequestParam
* Its behavior can be customized using the following attributes:

* **name:** allows you to use a different name for the query parameter and Java variable.

* **required:** sets the query parameter as optional or required.

* **defaultValue:** sets a default value for the query parameter if none is passed in.

* *@RequestParam*  also supports almost any data type, even data structures like *List<?>*, but keep an eye on how much is being passed in using these structures. Moving them into the HTTP body may be better.

### @PathVariable
Much like a query parameter, a path variable is used to pass information from the client to the server via the URL. But there are a few differences:

* Order matters for path variables.

* Query parameters are **encoded**, path variables usually are not (but they can be).

* Some find that path variables are more easily readable or logical than query parameters

* Path variables require changes to the value of your *@RequestMapping* annotation.

### @RequestBody
* *@RequestBody* is placed directly before a method parameter.

* When a method parameter is marked with *@RequestBody*, Spring will do its best to deserialize the request's body onto the object type you provide.

* The body can hold more data than both query parameters & path variables, in addition to supporting many data types.

* If you make the request body optional, you should always do a null check.

### Multipart Form Data
The MultipartFile class is used to handle incoming files and their components:

* File Name

* Bytes (data stored in a *byte[]*)

* File Type

* The Content-Type header used to indicate the type of data transferred.

* The Content-Disposition header used to force a download of the file and give it a name.

### Spring Project Structure
* **Controllers:** handle outside interaction and delegate to services

* **Services:** handle data manipulations and delegate to repositories and other services

* **Repositories:** take care of database queries and manipulations

* **Models:** transport data around your application in the form of objects and entities.

* **Exceptions:** custom exceptions are used to create more specific error messages that convey more information in less space.

# Spring MVC
Spring MVC is a module within the Spring Framework that makes it easier to develop and deploy applications using MVC architecture.

MVC (Model-View-Controller) is an architectural pattern in software engineering that separates a web application into three main logical components:

* **Model** encapsulates application data.

* **View** is responsible for rendering model data, usually in the form of HTML pages.

* **Controller** processes HTTP requests, builds models, and passes models to the view for rendering.

### Model
* **Model** is an interface that provides data to a view.

* **ModelMap** is a class. You can create and play with an object to get your desired structure.

* **ModelAndView** is just a container for a model and view. While with the others you send them separately, with ModelAndView you can pass them together.

### Thymeleaf
* Thymeleaf is a server-side Java templating engine.

* When you return a String from an endpoint method within an *@Controller* annotated class, you are specifying the HTML template file Thymeleaf will use to render data from the model.

###  Leveraging HTML, CSS and JS in Thymeleaf Templates
Spring Boot will automatically scan for static web resources located within any of the following directories:

* **/resources**, **/static**, **/public**, **/META-INF/resources**

# Spring Testing
In software engineering projects, you should test:

* Individual units.

* Larger structures with multiple units.

* Comprehensive top-to-bottom tests of your application.

Annotations to Configure your Spring Test Environment

* *@SpringBootTest* will start your entire Spring application before testing.

* *@WebMvcTest* starts only the web layer.

* *@ExtendWith(MockitoExtension.class)* allows testing without booting Spring.

### Profiles
Spring Profiles let you include/exclude classes and methods from the Spring IoC container based on which profiles are currently active.

* Profiles are beneficial in controlling your available beans & methods, providing alternate settings or data for different development situations.

* Using Spring profiles requires the **spring.profiles.active** property in **application.properties**

If appropriately used, this system allows you to change application behavior on a large scale by simply switching profiles.

### MockMvc
* Para usar o MockMvc, você pode usar a @AutoConfigureMockMvcanotação e conectar automaticamente uma referência do MockMvc à sua classe de teste.

* O MockMvc começa com o método perform. Perform recebe um RequestBuilder que é usado para editar a solicitação a ser enviada ao servidor. Após a solicitação ser enviada, há três métodos disponíveis para acessar/testar a resposta:
    * *andDo():* faça algo com o resultado
    * *andExpect():* comparar o real com o esperado
    * *andReturn():* obtenha acesso direto ao MvcResult
    * *andExpect()* tem um número significativo de entradas possíveis usadas para testar os resultados. Espero que os exemplos tenham ajudado a dar uma ideia melhor de como ele é usado.

### JSONPath for Testing JSON Responses
* MockMvc is used to call **perform()**, which takes in an HTTP method like **get()** or **put()**. Using the HTTP method, you can edit the request. Once the request is ready, you can use **andDo()**, **andExpect()** and **andReturn()** to access the response data.

# Spring Security
* **Authentication:** Who are you? Authentication validates who a user is, typically through a process like username and password verification.
* **Authorization:** What are you allowed to do? Authorization follows authentication. Once an application knows who you are, it can allow or block access and actions based on your permissions.

### Authentication
The three core pieces of the authentication mechanism:

* **Authentication Filters:** responsible for intercepting authentication requests and acting on them.

* **Authentication Managers:** responsible for delegating to authentication providers.

* **Authentication Providers:** responsible for authenticating a user's credentials.

Understanding the connections between AuthenticationFilters, AuthenticationManagers, and AuthenticationProviders is crucial for comprehending user authentication in Spring Security. And the **SecurityFilterChain** plays a significant role in defining these authentication mechanisms.


### Username & Password Authentication
* The first is adding a UsernamePasswordAuthenticationFilter to the filter chain (via **.formLogin()**), and configuring to your needs using methods like **defaultSuccessUrl()**, **failureUrl()**.

* The second was the addition & configuration of a UserDetailsService. This provides Spring Security access to user information like usernames, passwords, and roles.

### Advanced Filters
* **LogoutFilter** is responsible for handling logout requests.

* **ConcurrentSessionFilter** is responsible for managing sessions. It does this together with another filter named SessionManagementFilter. These filters control the JSESSIONID cookie and what it references within your application.

* **ChannelProcessingFilter** is responsible for discerning whether a request is being made over the correct channel.

### Password Hashing
* **Hashing vs. Encryption:** Hashing converts data into a hash value that cannot be reversed, while encryption can be reversed by anyone with the encryption key.
The characteristics of a good hashing function include: deterministic, non-reversible, entropic, and collision resistant.

* How a hashing fits into password verification.

* How to hash passwords with the BCrypt hashing function.

### Authorization
* Call **authorizeHttpRequests(() ->)**. The SecurityFilterChain bean is the core of HTTP security configuration, and it can change many filters. By calling authorizeRequests(), you let Spring know these changes should apply to authorization filters.

* Within the lambda, call a matcher method like **requestMatchers()**, which allows requests to be matched with rules.

* Define the actual authorization rule. The following are just some of the available methods to establish a rule:
    * **permitAll():** Allows access for all.
    
    * **authenticated():** Requires user to be authenticated for access, this is the default.
    
    * **hasRole():** Requires users to have the correct role. Shortcut for **hasAuthority()** that adds a ROLE_ prefix to the string passed in.
    
    * **hasAuthority():** Requires users to have the proper authority.

### Method Security Annotations
These can control access to methods by checking the state of some data before or after the method executes. Depending on the requirements, you can use:

* *@PreAuthorize* and *@PostAuthorize* to check method parameters or return data and compare it to other data, such as a user's authentication object.

* *@PreFilter* and *@PostFilter* to access and filter Collections that were either passed in or returned from a method.

For now, just know that just like with @Transactional, MSA rules won't be applied if the method is called from within the same class.

If you ignore this and depend on MSAs for essential security controls, your application is bound to become vulnerable to unauthorized action.

### Custom PermissionEvaluator
To create your own PermissionEvaluator you:

1. Implement the PermissionEvaluator interface and override its methods.

2. Annotate the class with *@Component*.

3. Register a MethodSecurityExpressionHandler bean, assigning your permission evaluator.

4. Call **hasPermission()** in your SpEL expressions.